Assignment 1 , Devops .

Name : jay keda gangurde 
Roll no : 21111016 


Q1. What is Software ? 

== Basically software is a thing which help us to made our work easy on computer and electronic things , in software there is a set of instructions which perform tasks according to conditions given by the end-user . There are 2 main type of software one is system software and second application software , system software run our operating system done some simple tasks or hevy task also , and application task work for different purpose , just like - microsoft word , which used for creating documents .

Q2. What is SaaS ?

== SaaS is basically known as , software as a service , in this software is work on internet as service provider . its application also known as web  applications , saas is a distribution model which cloud provider hosts application and make them avalible to the end-user . the best thing of saas is , it allow user to use program directly via internet , no need to install software or anything in local machine , all things are run on server in fast time .its easy to understand , easy to implement and cost effective , rather than traditional software which we install on our local machine . currently saas used  in many orgnization , its Accessible from anywhere but its Increased security risks . some of SaaS examples are , Gsuit , zoom , adobe creative cloud , netflix  and many more are there .

Q 3 . What is PaaS ? 

==  PaaS is basically platform as a service , it's a platform where we done several task using the tools which where provided by that platform , in cloud model we use pass , using the internet , we don't need to install hevy software in our system ,. It allows to build an entire application in a web browser. Because the development environment is not hosted locally, developers can work on the application from anywhere in the world. 	It's cost effective and run fast because of the server but we need high speed internet for that . AWS , MICROSOFT AZUR , Goggle app engine is a some examples of Pass .

Q 4 . What is IaaS ? 

==  IaaS is a infrastructure as a service. It is a cloud service model that offers on-demand infrastructure resources, such as compute, storage, networking, and virtualization, to businesses and individuals via the cloud. Basically It is among best service service provider. 	IaaS enables end users to scale and shrink resources on an as-needed basis , 	There are lots of advantages of IaaS some of them are ,  Pay as you go , Speed 	, Availability , Scale ,Latency and performance   .Some popular examples of IaaS include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, DigitalOcean, and Linode. Some of the platforms that offer on-premise IaaS solutions include Amazon Outposts, Azure Stack, and Google Anthos.

Q 5 . What is IaaC ? 

== It's known as , infrastructure as a code , it's a thing that use to manage big data , data center's , storage and networking infrastructure .The benefits of IaaC include improved consistency and reliability, faster deployment times, increased scalability and efficiency, and easier management and maintenance. IaaC also promotes collaboration and transparency among teams, as infrastructure changes are clearly defined and tracked in code repositories. 	IaC tools and frameworks can vary, but they generally involve defining infrastructure components and resources as code, using a declarative syntax such as YAML or JSON. Popular IaC tools include Terraform, Ansible, Puppet, and Chef.

   

   

   

   


